Bright colors, wild patterns, artists on
the dial, even a watch designed by a
pig. That's Swatch.
But these days, the brand's actually a
lot broader.
>> The Swatch Group is one of the biggest
forces in watch making in Europe and in
the world.
>> It's valued at over $9 billion with more
than a dozen brands under its umbrella.
>> 150 production sites out of Switzerland.
the quintessential Swiss watchmaking
company.
>> The Swatch watch was basically the
brainchild of Nicholas Hayek and his
team. And when he launched it, he was
credited with changing the perception of
Swiss watchmaking and saving the
industry. But right now,
>> the Swatch Group has been under pressure
because its performance hasn't been
great.
>> It's now one of the most shorted stocks
in Europe. That means investors are
betting against it and it's already
trading at a 16-year low. August brought
an even greater blow. Swiss watchmaking
was suddenly central to an international
trade crisis.
>> The Swiss president is expected to leave
Washington without a deal.
>> They're stuck with that 39% tariff.
>> It's the highest rate Trump has slept on
any industrial nations.
>> With all that in mind and amid criticism
of leadership, can Swatch turn its
fortunes around?
Switzerland means many things to people,
but it might be best known for its
watches.
>> Speak of time pieces and you speak of
Switzerland.
>> See, watches are so Swiss. It's right up
there with chocolate and cheese in terms
of how people like really view the
national identity.
>> And no more so than 42year-old Swatch.
The Swatch Group is the biggest watches
manufacturer by volume globally and
number three if we think about it by
retail value behind Rolex and just just
behind Rishmon Group.
Its brands get everywhere from 007's
wrist.
>> Your watch,
>> how strong is it?
>> To the Pelaton,
even up here. And it's got lots of
brands.
At the very bottom level, there's
Swatch, which is very inexpensive. It's
sister brand Flickflack, which is
watches for kids. And then just above
that, there's brands like Tisso and
Line, which are middle- range watches.
And then as you go up, there's fancier,
more rarified brands. There's Harry
Winston, which is watches with lots of
diamonds.
>> There are two brands that the very
high-end, Bregette and Blanca. And then
we run through their biggest brand would
be Omega. The biggest part of the swatch
business is its mid-range.
>> We'll return to this in a tick.
The Seikko quartz gives you accuracy you
can see as well as hear as the second
hand moves in precise 1 second
intervals.
>> In the 1980s in the watchmaking
industry, traditional mechanical watch
makers were really falling victim to a
craze for very inexpensive quartz
watches which were mostly made out of
Japan.
>> And Seyo was the biggest commercial
threat. And no matter how beautiful and
handmade mechanical watches were, it
just couldn't be as accurate as these
quartz watches. And they were also much
more expensive. Swiss watch makers
weren't equipped to mass-produce or
compete on price. And the impact was
devastating.
>> We saw 1,600
specialist watch makers down to 600 over
a 10-year period. Then the Swiss had an
idea.
>> A lowpriced watch that could be fun and
interchangeable and add an expression to
your fashion sense.
>> Just take the quartz mechanism and
Japanese innovation, then mass-produce
it on your own terms.
>> So the name Swatch, it doesn't stand for
Swiss watch. It stands for second watch.
>> And there were thousands of them,
including that one from Old McDonald's
Finest. Sure, they told the time, but
really they told the world who you were.
>> This was huge. Swatch was incredibly
wellreceived by consumers globally.
>> Launched in 1983, Swatch sold over a
million of them in the first year.
>> The new way to Swiss watches.
>> By the early '90s, sales soared to about
20 times that annually. The company used
that momentum to revive some of its
struggling high-end brands and acquire
new ones. It provided a financial base
to support other companies and
traditional mechanical watch making
because suddenly tons of people were
running out to buy these colorful, fun
watches to add their collection. And it
really turned around the prospects for
not just the Swatch Group, but of the
whole Swiss watchmaking industry.
Decades later, the markets changed.
Phones and smart watches have chipped
away at the lower-end range, leaving
luxury as the main engine for growth.
You can see that trend here. The volume
of low-end watches sold, represented in
orange, has been on the decline. The
impact is even more striking when
analyzed by value. Luxury watches, shown
in blue, account for an increasingly
bigger share of revenue compared to low
and mid-range watches.
That evolution hasn't favored Swatch
given its plethora of mid-range brands
and its recent troubles run deeper.
Profit was down almost 90% in the first
half of 2025.
A few things explained this. First,
China.
>> The market in China has really, really
softened.
>> The spending slump hit luxury brands
across the board, but mid-market swatch
more than most. In 2024, Asia made up
53% of its sales with China alone
accounting for 27%.
>> Brands in the mid-range have struggled
more than those at the very high end or
the lower end. We've seen a lowered
consumer sentiment globally. So, it's
been a double whammy for the Swatch
Group versus its high-end luxury peer
group. There is a hope that the company
can do better on the back of China
really starting to see a little bit more
improvement, but it's very slow and
gradual improvement. The luxury sector
is facing almost a perfect storm at the
moment and it's not clear whether US
consumers will ride to the rescue
because they're facing pressures.
>> Which brings us to the second big
challenge. In August, the US imposed a
39% tariff on imports from Switzerland,
steeper than the 31% it had previously
threatened.
>> These are one of the highest rates the
US has imposed on the entire world.
>> This came as a complete surprise to the
Swiss.
>> Tariffs are a big headache for the
luxury sector, particularly Swiss
watches. Any kind of increase in the
price is unhelpful. Over the last 5
years, luxury companies have all put up
their prices. That gives them less
wiggle room for further increases.
These are two serious external
headwinds, but they aren't the only
reasons for Swatch looking scuffed.
Remember Nicholas Hayek? Now, his son
runs the business and his daughter
chairs the board. The family and related
parties control 44% of the voting rights
and they've had at times a tempestuous
relationship with shareholders.
>> It doesn't particularly engage with
investors in the same way as other
groups. It's really run as a private
company.
>> So why not do that? They float the idea.
But
>> the problem is how to do that. any
buyer, whether it's private equity,
would have to take on a lot of debt.
>> Some investors have tried to force
changes.
>> The company's super super conservatively
structured, so a bit of external help
can go a long way in improving the the
execution here.
>> Steven Wood, an activist investor,
attempted to win a seat on the board. He
was defeated, but he's challenging the
outcome. Activist campaigns in luxury
are quite unusual and this just
underlines the frustration among
investors with the Swatch Group.
>> Swatch has responded to criticism from
analysts and investors by saying the
industry shouldn't be focused
exclusively on the wealthy.
Swatch has managed to create more
mainstream buzz as recently as 2022.
The Moon Swatch was a version of Omega's
flagship model, the Moon Watch, which is
a Speed Master that was worn on six moon
missions. And it became very, very
popular. And they sold more than a
million of the original versions and
they expected to sell something like
500,000. So, it was a huge difference
for the bottom line for the company.
>> Of course, we knew this is a bomb, but
that it was such an overwhelming
success. Yes, that was a surprise.
Trouble was this was an exception.
>> Swatch has a little bit fallen out of
the conversation in terms of making
exciting new product that appeals to
young people, being really relevant when
it comes to the right spokespeople, uh,
using the right influencers. They just
aren't really making a lot of products
that are like really getting people
jazzed up.
>> Some of that comes down to its isolation
from other brands. Swatch owns most of
its own stores and so it doesn't need to
show stuff to retailers the way that
other brands do. That kind of split them
off from the storytelling of the rest of
the industry.
>> The Swatch Group still commands a
powerful name and rich heritage, but
heritage alone doesn't sell watches.
>> So much of watch making is based on
perception. And you really have to have
people think that not only is your watch
wellade, not only is it beautiful, but
also it's cool and it's coveted and it
has a story behind it.
[Music]